priCSts. De Sort) had twenty‘four with him. La Salle had several, also.
'lhe expeditions were often out ofnicat, and scant ol’clmhes, but
they always had the furniture and Other requisites for the mass; they
were always prepared, as one of the quaint chroniclers of the time
phrased it, to 'exPlain hell to the savages:
On the 17th of June, 1673, the canoes of Joliet and
Marquette and their ﬁve subordinates reached the junctionof
the Wisconsin'with the Mississippi. Mr. Parkman says: 'Before
them a wide and rapid current coursed athwart their way, by
the foot of lofty heights wrapped thick in forests.’ He contin-
ues: 'Turning southward, they paddled down the stream,
through a solitude unrelieved by the faintest trace of rnan.’
A big cat'fish collided with Marquette's canoe,
and startled him; and reasonably enough, for he had
been warned by the Indians that he was on. a foolhardy
journey, and even a fatal one, for the river contained a
dernon ‘whose roar could be heard at a great distance,
and who would engulf then; in the abyss where he
dwelt.’ I have seen a h'IissiSSippi catﬁsh that was more
than six feet. long, and weighed two hundred and ﬁfty
pounds; and if Marquette'sﬁsh was the fellow to that.
one, he had a fair right to think the river's roaring de‘
111011 was come.
”At length the buiiitlo began to appear. grazing in herds on
the great prairies which then bordered the river: and Marquette de-
scribes the ﬁerce and stupid look of the old bulls as they stared at the
intruders through the tangled mane which nearly blinded them.“
The voyagers moved cautiously: 'Londed at night
and mode 0 fire to cook their evening meal; then extin-
guished it, embarked again, paddled some way farther,
and anchored in the stream, keeping a man on the.
watch till morning.‘
They did this day after day and night after night;
and at the end of two weeks they had not seen a human
being. The river was an awful solitude, then. And it is
now, over most of its stretch.